README:  Tcl
    This is the Tcl 8.2.3 source distribution.
    You can get this release from:
        http://www.scriptics.com/registration/8.2.3.tml

RCS: @(#) Id

Contents
--------
    1. Introduction
    2. Documentation
    3. Compiling and installing Tcl
    4. Development tools
    5. Tcl newsgroup
    6. Tcl contributed archive
    7. Tcl Resource Center
    8. Mailing lists
    9. Support and Training
    10. Thank You

1. Introduction
---------------
Tcl provides a powerful platform for creating integration
applications that tie together diverse applications, protocols,
devices, and frameworks.  When paired with the Tk toolkit, Tcl
provides the fastest and most powerful way to create GUI applications
that run on PCs, Unix, and the Macintosh.  Tcl can also be used for a
variety of web-related tasks and for creating powerful command
languages for applications.

Tcl is maintained, enhanced, and distributed freely as a
service to the Tcl community by Scriptics Corporation.
The official home for Tcl/Tk is on the Scriptics Web site:

    http://www.scriptics.com

Tcl is a freely available open source package.  You can do virtually
anything you like with it, such as modifying it, redistributing it,
and selling it either in whole or in part.  See the file
"license.terms" for complete information.

2. Documentation
---------------

Extensive documentation is available at our website.  The
home page for this release is
    http://www.scriptics.com/software/8.2.html

Information about new features in 8.2 can be found at
    http://www.scriptics.com/software/whatsnew82.html

Detailed release notes can be found at
    http://www.scriptics.com/software/relnotes/tcl8.2.3

Information about Tcl itself can be found at
    http://www.scriptics.com/scripting/

There are many Tcl books on the market.  Most are listed at
    http://www.scriptics.com/resource/doc/books/

2a. Unix Documentation
----------------------

The "doc" subdirectory in this release contains a complete set of
reference manual entries for Tcl.  Files with extension ".1" are for
programs (for example, tclsh.1); files with extension ".3" are for C
library procedures; and files with extension ".n" describe Tcl
commands.  The file "doc/Tcl.n" gives a quick summary of the Tcl
language syntax.  To print any of the man pages on Unix, cd to the
"doc" directory and invoke your favorite variant of troff using the
normal -man macros, for example

		ditroff -man Tcl.n

to print Tcl.n.  If Tcl has been installed correctly and your "man"
program supports it, you should be able to access the Tcl manual entries
using the normal "man" mechanisms, such as

		man Tcl

2b. Windows Documentation
-------------------------

The "doc" subdirectory in this release contains a complete set of
Windows help files for Tcl.  Once you install this Tcl release, a
shortcut to the Windows help Tcl documentation will appear in the
"Start" menu:

	Start | Programs | Tcl | Tcl Help

3. Compiling and installing Tcl
-------------------------------

There are brief notes in the unix/README, win/README, and mac/README
about compiling on these different platforms.  There is additional
information about building Tcl from sources at
    http://www.scriptics.com/support/howto/compile.html


4. TclPro Development tools
--------------------

A high quality set of commercial development tools is now available to
accelerate your Tcl application development.  Scriptics' TclPro
product provides a debugger, static code checker, packaging utility,
and bytecode compiler.  Visit the Scriptics Web site at:

	http://www.scriptics.com/tclpro

for more information on TclPro and for a free evaluation download.

5. Tcl newsgroup
----------------

There is a network news group "comp.lang.tcl" intended for the
exchange of information about Tcl, Tk, and related applications.  The
newsgroup is a great place to ask general information questions.  For
bug reports, please see the "Support and bug fixes" section below.

6. Tcl contributed archive
--------------------------

Many people have created exciting packages and applications based on Tcl
and/or Tk and made them freely available to the Tcl community.  An archive
of these contributions is kept on the machine ftp.neosoft.com.  You
can access the archive using anonymous FTP; the Tcl contributed archive is
in the directory "/pub/tcl".  The archive also contains several FAQ
("frequently asked questions") documents that provide solutions to problems
that are commonly encountered by TCL newcomers.

7. Tcl Resource Center
----------------------

Visit http://www.scriptics.com/resource/ to see an annotated index of
many Tcl resources available on the World Wide Web.  This includes
papers, books, and FAQs, as well as development tools, extensions,
applications, binary releases, and patches.  You can also recommend
additional URLs for the resource center using the forms labeled "Add a
Resource".

8. Mailing lists
----------------

A couple of  Mailing List have been set up to discuss Macintosh or
Windows related Tcl issues.  To subscribe send a message to:
	
	wintcl-request@tclconsortium.org
	mactcl-request@tclconsortium.org
	
In the body of the message (the subject will be ignored) put:
	
	subscribe mactcl Joe Smith
	
Replace Joe Smith with your real name, of course.  (Use wintcl
instead of mactcl if you're interested in the Windows list.)  If you
would just like to receive more information about the list without
subscribing put the line:

	information mactcl
	
(or wintcl) in the body instead.

9. Support and Training
------------------------

Scriptics is very interested in receiving bug reports, patches, and
suggestions for improvements.  We prefer that you send this
information to us via the bug form on the Scriptics Web site, rather
than emailing us directly.  The bug form is at:

	http://www.scriptics.com/support/bugForm.html

The bug form was designed to give uniform structure to bug reports as
well as to solicit enough information to minimize followup questions.
The bug form also includes an option to automatically post your report
on comp.lang.tcl.  We strongly recommend that you select this option
because someone else who reads comp.lang.tcl may be able to offer a
solution.

We will log and follow-up on each bug, although we cannot promise a
specific turn-around time.  Enhancements may take longer and may not
happen at all unless there is widespread support for them (we're
trying to slow the rate at which Tcl/Tk turns into a kitchen sink).
It's very difficult to make incompatible changes to Tcl/Tk at this
point, due to the size of the installed base.

The Tcl community is too large for us to provide much individual
support for users.  If you need help we suggest that you post
questions to comp.lang.tcl.  We read the newsgroup and will attempt to
answer esoteric questions for which no-one else is likely to know the
answer.  In addition, Tcl/Tk support and training are available
commercially from Scriptics at:

	http://www.scriptics.com/training

Also see the following Web site for links to other organizations that
offer Tcl/Tk training:

	http://www.scriptics.com/resource/commercial/training

10. Thank You
-------------

We'd like to express our thanks to the Tcl community for all the
helpful suggestions, bug reports, and patches we have received.
Tcl/Tk has improved vastly and will continue to do so with your help.
