Tk 8.2 for Macintosh

by Ray Johnson
Scriptics Corporation
rjohnson@scriptics.com
with major help from
Jim Ingham
Cygnus Solutions
jingham@cygnus.com

RCS: @(#) Id

1. Introduction
---------------

This is the README file for the Macintosh version of the Tk
extension for the Tcl scripting language.  The file consists of
information specific to the Macintosh version of Tcl and Tk.  For more
general information please read the README file in the main Tk
directory.

3. Mac specific features
------------------------

There are several features or enhancements in Tk that are unique to 
the Macintosh version of Tk.  The list of these features is
maintained at
	http://www.scriptics.com/mac/features.html

4. The Distribution
-------------------

Macintosh Tk is distributed in three different forms.  This 
should make it easier to only download what you need.  The 
packages are as follows:

mactk8.2.sea.hqx

    This distribution is a "binary" only release.  It contains an
    installer program that will install a 68k, PowerPC, or Fat
    version of the "Wish" application.  In addition, in installs
    the Tcl & Tk libraries in the Extensions folder inside your
    System Folder.  (No "INIT"'s or Control Pannels are installed.)

mactcltk-full-8.2.sea.hqx

    This release contains the full release of Tcl and Tk for the
    Macintosh plus the More Files package on which Macintosh Tcl and
    Tk rely.

mactk-source-8.2.sea.hqx

    This release contains the complete source to Tk for the Macintosh
    In addition, Metrowerks CodeWarrior libraries and project files
    are included.  However, you must already have the More Files
    package to compile this code.

5. Compiling Tk
---------------

In order to compile Macintosh Tk you must have the 
following items:

	CodeWarrior Pro 3 or higher
	Mac Tcl 8.2 (source)
	  (which requires More Files 1.4.2 or 1.4.3)
	Mac Tk 8.2 (source)

The project  files included with the Mac Tcl source should work 
fine.  The only thing you may need to update are the access paths.
As with Tcl, you need to upgrade to the 2.0.1 version of the C
compilers or later to build the CFM68K version of Tcl/Tk.

Special notes:

* Check out the file bugs.doc for information about known bugs.

* We are starting to support the new Appearance Manager that shipped
  with MacOS 8.0.  The Tk 8.0.3 release is the first Tk release
  that supports the Appearance Manager well.  Tk 8.0.4 extends this support
  to the menu system, though you have to have Appearance 1.0.1 or later
  installed for this to work.
  
* If you get the Unix tar file, it will untar into a directory tcl8.0.4.  However,
  the Macintosh project files expect the folder to be called tcl8.0.  You will need
  to rename the folder to tcl8.0, or change all the paths in the project files.


If you have comments or Bug reports send them to:
Jim Ingham
jingham@cygnus.com

or use our on-line bug form at

http://www.scriptics.com/support/bugForm.html

